README.md, before:

# prisma-migrations

manage prisma migrations like other orms

**Prisma Migrations** is a Node.js library and CLI tool that provides a Knex-like migration management approach for Prisma ORM. Write migrations with familiar `up` and `down` functions while leveraging Prisma's powerful client and type safety.

## Why Use This?

- **Familiar Knex-like API** - `up` and `down` functions you already know
- **TypeScript First** - Full type safety for your migrations
- **Prisma Powered** - Use both raw SQL and Prisma operations
- **Flexible Control** - Run specific migrations, rollback, dry-run
- **Modern Build** - ESM/CJS dual support, Node.js 20+ ready

## Installation

```bash
npm install prisma-migrations
```

### Compatibility

- **Prisma:** 2.0.0 and higher
- **Node.js:** 20 and higher

#### Build Formats

- **CommonJS CLI:** Works with Prisma 2.0.0+
- **ESM CLI:** Works with Prisma 3.15.0+ (requires ES module support)
- **Library API:** Both ESM and CommonJS builds available

#### Notes

- CommonJS CLI (`dist/cli.cjs`) is used by default for maximum compatibility
- ESM CLI (`dist/cli.js`) available for users with compatible Prisma versions
- TypeScript migrations require `tsx` to be installed

### Requirements

- **Runtime:** Node.js 20+ (Tested with Node.js 20-24)
- **Development/Testing:** Node.js 24+ (Required for unit tests and mocking)

## Quick Start

### CLI Usage

```bash
# Create a new migration
prisma-migrations create add_users_table

# Run all pending migrations
prisma-migrations up

# Run migrations with options
prisma-migrations up --steps 3
prisma-migrations up --dry-run

# Rollback migrations
prisma-migrations down
prisma-migrations down --steps 2

# Check migration status
prisma-migrations status
```

### Programmatic Usage

```javascript
import { MigrationManager } from "prisma-migrations";

const manager = new MigrationManager();

// Create a new migration
await manager.createMigration({ name: "add_users_table" });

// Run all pending migrations
await manager.runMigrations();

// Rollback last migration
await manager.rollbackMigrations();

// Get migration status
const status = await manager.getMigrationStatus();
```

## Migration Files

Write migrations with familiar `up` and `down` functions, just like Knex:

```typescript
import { PrismaClient } from "@prisma/client";

export async function up(prisma: PrismaClient): Promise<void> {
  // Raw SQL for schema changes
  await prisma.$executeRaw`
    CREATE TABLE users (
      id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
      email VARCHAR(255) UNIQUE NOT NULL,
      name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
      created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
    )
  `;

  // Use Prisma operations for data seeding
  await prisma.user.createMany({
    data: [
      { email: "admin@example.com", name: "Admin User" },
      { email: "user@example.com", name: "Test User" },
    ],
  });
}

export async function down(prisma: PrismaClient): Promise<void> {
  await prisma.$executeRaw`DROP TABLE IF EXISTS users`;
}
```

**JavaScript migrations work too:**

```javascript
exports.up = async function (prisma) {
  await prisma.$executeRaw`
    CREATE TABLE posts (
      id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
      title VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
      user_id INTEGER REFERENCES users(id)
    )
  `;
};

exports.down = async function (prisma) {
  await prisma.$executeRaw`DROP TABLE IF EXISTS posts`;
};
```

## Configuration

Prisma Migrations can be configured in several ways:

### 1. package.json

```json
{
  "prismaMigrations": {
    "migrationsDir": "./migrations",
    "schemaPath": "./prisma/schema.prisma",
    "tableName": "_prisma_migrations",
    "createTable": true,
    "migrationFormat": "ts",
    "extension": ".ts"
  }
}
```

### 2. Configuration file (prisma-migrations.config.js)

```javascript
module.exports = {
  migrationsDir: "./migrations",
  schemaPath: "./prisma/schema.prisma",
  tableName: "_prisma_migrations",
  createTable: true,
  migrationFormat: "ts", // 'sql', 'js', or 'ts'
  extension: ".ts", // or '.js', '.sql'
};
```

### Configuration Options

| Option            | Type                | Default                    | Description                                 |
| ----------------- | ------------------- | -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| `migrationsDir`   | `string`            | `'./migrations'`           | Directory where migration files are stored  |
| `schemaPath`      | `string`            | `'./prisma/schema.prisma'` | Path to Prisma schema file                  |
| `tableName`       | `string`            | `'_prisma_migrations'`     | Name of the migrations tracking table       |
| `createTable`     | `boolean`           | `true`                     | Whether to auto-create the migrations table |
| `migrationFormat` | `'sql'\|'js'\|'ts'` | `'ts'`                     | Format for new migration files              |
| `extension`       | `string`            | `'.ts'`                    | File extension for new migrations           |

### 3. Environment Variables

Set `DATABASE_URL` environment variable for database connection.

---

## API

### CLI Commands

#### `prisma-migrations create <name>`

Create a new migration file.

**Parameters:**

- `<name>`: Migration name (string)

**Example:**

```bash
prisma-migrations create add_users_table
prisma-migrations create "update user schema"
```

---

#### `prisma-migrations up [options]`

Run all pending migrations or specific migrations.

**Options:**

- `-t, --to <timestamp>`: Run up to a specific migration
- `-s, --steps <number>`: Run a specific number of migrations
- `-d, --dry-run`: Preview migrations without applying

**Examples:**

```bash
# Run all pending migrations
prisma-migrations up

# Run up to a specific migration
prisma-migrations up --to 20231201120000

# Run next 3 migrations
prisma-migrations up --steps 3

# Preview without applying
prisma-migrations up --dry-run
```

---

#### `prisma-migrations down [options]`

Rollback migrations.

**Options:**

- `-t, --to <timestamp>`: Rollback to a specific migration
- `-s, --steps <number>`: Rollback a specific number of migrations
- `-d, --dry-run`: Preview rollback without applying

**Examples:**

```bash
# Rollback last migration
prisma-migrations down

# Rollback to a specific migration
prisma-migrations down --to 20231201120000

# Rollback last 2 migrations
prisma-migrations down --steps 2

# Preview rollback
prisma-migrations down --dry-run
```

---

#### `prisma-migrations status`

Get the status of all migrations.

**Example:**

```bash
prisma-migrations status
```

**Output:**

```
add_users_table [applied] - 2023-12-01T12:00:00.000Z
add_posts_table [pending] - Pending
update_users_schema [applied] - 2023-12-01T13:00:00.000Z
```

---

#### `prisma-migrations test`

Test database connection.

**Example:**

```bash
prisma-migrations test
```

---

### Programmatic API

#### `MigrationManager(configPath?)`

Main class for managing migrations programmatically.

**Parameters:**

- `configPath?`: Optional path to configuration file (string)

**Example:**

```javascript
import { MigrationManager } from "prisma-migrations";

const manager = new MigrationManager("./custom-config.js");
```

---

#### `manager.createMigration(options)`

Create a new migration file.

**Parameters:**

- `options`: CreateMigrationOptions object
  - `name`: Migration name (string)
  - `directory?`: Optional custom directory (string)
  - `template?`: Optional custom template (MigrationTemplate)

**Returns:** `Promise<MigrationFile>`

**Example:**

```javascript
const migration = await manager.createMigration({
  name: "add_users_table",
  template: {
    up: "CREATE TABLE users (id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY);",
    down: "DROP TABLE users;",
  },
});
```

---

#### `manager.runMigrations(options?)`

Run pending migrations.

**Parameters:**

- `options?`: RunMigrationOptions object
  - `to?`: Run up to specific migration (string)
  - `steps?`: Number of migrations to run (number)
  - `dryRun?`: Preview without applying (boolean)
  - `force?`: Force run even if already applied (boolean)

**Returns:** `Promise<MigrationResult>`

**Example:**

```javascript
// Run all pending migrations
const result = await manager.runMigrations();

// Run with options
const result = await manager.runMigrations({
  steps: 3,
  dryRun: true,
});
```

---

#### `manager.rollbackMigrations(options?)`

Rollback applied migrations.

**Parameters:**

- `options?`: RollbackMigrationOptions object
  - `to?`: Rollback to specific migration (string)
  - `steps?`: Number of migrations to rollback (number)
  - `dryRun?`: Preview without applying (boolean)
  - `force?`: Force rollback even without down script (boolean)

**Returns:** `Promise<MigrationResult>`

**Example:**

```javascript
// Rollback last migration
const result = await manager.rollbackMigrations();

// Rollback with options
const result = await manager.rollbackMigrations({
  steps: 2,
  dryRun: true,
});
```

---

#### `manager.getMigrationStatus()`

Get status of all migrations.

**Returns:** `Promise<MigrationStatus[]>`

**Example:**

```javascript
const statuses = await manager.getMigrationStatus();
statuses.forEach((status) => {
  console.log(`${status.name} [${status.status}]`);
});
```

---

#### `manager.getMigrationState()`

Get detailed migration state information.

**Returns:** `Promise<MigrationState>`

**Example:**

```javascript
const state = await manager.getMigrationState();
console.log("Applied:", state.applied.length);
console.log("Pending:", state.pending.length);
```

---

#### `manager.testConnection()`

Test database connection.

**Returns:** `Promise<boolean>`

**Example:**

```javascript
const isConnected = await manager.testConnection();
if (isConnected) {
  console.log("Database connection successful");
}
```

---

### Configuration Classes

#### `ConfigManager(configPath?)`

Manages configuration loading and access.

**Methods:**

- `getConfig()`: Get current configuration
- `updateConfig(updates)`: Update configuration
- `getDatabaseUrl()`: Get database URL from various sources

---

#### `FileManager(migrationsDir)`

Manages migration file operations.

**Methods:**

- `createMigrationFile(name, template?)`: Create new migration file
- `readMigrationFiles()`: Read all migration files
- `getMigrationFile(timestamp)`: Get specific migration file
- `getMigrationByName(name)`: Find migration by name
- `parseMigrationContent(content)`: Parse UP/DOWN sections

---

#### `DatabaseAdapter(databaseUrl, tableName?)`

Handles database operations and migration tracking.

**Methods:**

- `connect()`: Connect to database
- `disconnect()`: Disconnect from database
- `getAppliedMigrations()`: Get all applied migrations
- `recordMigration(id, name)`: Record migration as applied
- `removeMigration(id)`: Remove migration record
- `executeMigration(sql)`: Execute migration SQL

---

### Type Definitions

#### `MigrationConfig`

```typescript
interface MigrationConfig {
  migrationsDir: string;
  schemaPath: string;
  databaseUrl?: string;
  tableName?: string;
  createTable?: boolean;
}
```

#### `Migration`

```typescript
interface Migration {
  id: string;
  name: string;
  filename: string;
  timestamp: Date;
  applied: boolean;
  appliedAt?: Date;
  rollback?: string;
}
```

#### `MigrationResult`

```typescript
interface MigrationResult {
  success: boolean;
  migrations: Migration[];
  error?: string;
}
```

#### `MigrationStatus`

```typescript
interface MigrationStatus {
  id: string;
  name: string;
  status: "pending" | "applied" | "error";
  appliedAt?: Date;
  error?: string;
}
```

---

### Migration File Formats

Prisma Migrations supports both SQL and JavaScript/TypeScript migration files:

#### SQL Format (Traditional)

```sql
-- UP
CREATE TABLE users (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  email VARCHAR(255) UNIQUE NOT NULL,
  created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);

-- DOWN
DROP TABLE users;
```

#### JavaScript/TypeScript Format (Knex-like)

**TypeScript (.ts files):**

```typescript
import { PrismaClient } from "@prisma/client";

export async function up(prisma: PrismaClient): Promise<void> {
  // Raw SQL approach
  await prisma.$executeRaw`
    CREATE TABLE users (
      id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
      email VARCHAR(255) UNIQUE NOT NULL,
      created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
      updated_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
    )
  `;

  // Or use Prisma operations for data seeding
  await prisma.user.createMany({
    data: [{ email: "admin@example.com" }, { email: "user@example.com" }],
  });
}

export async function down(prisma: PrismaClient): Promise<void> {
  await prisma.$executeRaw`DROP TABLE IF EXISTS users`;
}
```

**JavaScript (.js files):**

```javascript
exports.up = async function (prisma) {
  await prisma.$executeRaw`
    CREATE TABLE users (
      id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
      email VARCHAR(255) UNIQUE NOT NULL,
      created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
    )
  `;
};

exports.down = async function (prisma) {
  await prisma.$executeRaw`DROP TABLE IF EXISTS users`;
};
```

#### Configuration

Set the migration format in your configuration:

```javascript
// prisma-migrations.config.js
module.exports = {
  migrationFormat: "ts", // 'sql', 'js', or 'ts'
  migrationsDir: "./migrations",
  // ... other options
};
```

**Note:** TypeScript migrations require `tsx` to be installed:

```bash
npm install tsx
```

---

## Development

Use [Corepack](https://nodejs.org/api/corepack.html) to manage Yarn and ensure you have the latest Node and npm.

```bash
corepack enable
npm install
```

### Key Tasks

- `npm run build` - Build the TypeScript source
- `npm test` - Run unit tests
- `npm run test:docker` - Run end-to-end tests in Docker
- `npm run lint` - Run oxlint on source code
- `npm run format` - Format code with prettier

Use `npm run` commands for task execution.

Commit message:

chore: adds ci; please cmon

README.md, after:

# prisma-migrations

manage prisma migrations like other orms

**Prisma Migrations** is a Node.js library and CLI tool that provides a Knex-like migration management approach for Prisma ORM. Write migrations with familiar `up` and `down` functions while leveraging Prisma's powerful client and type safety.

## Why Use This?

- **Familiar Knex-like API** - `up` and `down` functions you already know
- **TypeScript First** - Full type safety for your migrations
- **Prisma Powered** - Use both raw SQL and Prisma operations
- **Flexible Control** - Run specific migrations, rollback, dry-run
- **Modern Build** - ESM/CJS dual support, Node.js 20+ ready

## Installation

```bash
npm install prisma-migrations
```

## Compatibility

This library is designed to work with modern versions of Prisma and Node.js. Please ensure your environment meets these requirements:

### Minimum Requirements

- **Prisma:** 2.0.0 or higher
- **Node.js:** 20.0.0 or higher

### Supported Versions

- **Prisma Client:** 4.0.0+ (peer dependency)
- **Prisma CLI:** 2.0.0+ (peer dependency)
- **Node.js:** 20.x, 21.x, 22.x, 23.x, 24.x

### Build Formats

- **CommonJS CLI:** Works with Prisma 2.0.0+
- **ESM CLI:** Works with Prisma 3.15.0+ (requires ES module support)
- **Library API:** Both ESM and CommonJS builds available

### Notes

- CommonJS CLI (`dist/cli.cjs`) is used by default for maximum compatibility
- ESM CLI (`dist/cli.js`) available for users with compatible Prisma versions
- TypeScript migrations require `tsx` to be installed
- Development and testing: Node.js 24+ is required for unit tests and mocking

## Quick Start

### CLI Usage

```bash
# Create a new migration
prisma-migrations create add_users_table

# Run all pending migrations
prisma-migrations up

# Run migrations with options
prisma-migrations up --steps 3
prisma-migrations up --dry-run

# Rollback migrations
prisma-migrations down
prisma-migrations down --steps 2

# Check migration status
prisma-migrations status
```

### Programmatic Usage

```javascript
import { MigrationManager } from "prisma-migrations";

const manager = new MigrationManager();

// Create a new migration
await manager.createMigration({ name: "add_users_table" });

// Run all pending migrations
await manager.runMigrations();

// Rollback last migration
await manager.rollbackMigrations();

// Get migration status
const status = await manager.getMigrationStatus();
```

## Migration Files

Write migrations with familiar `up` and `down` functions, just like Knex:

```typescript
import { PrismaClient } from "@prisma/client";

export async function up(prisma: PrismaClient): Promise<void> {
  // Raw SQL for schema changes
  await prisma.$executeRaw`
    CREATE TABLE users (
      id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
      email VARCHAR(255) UNIQUE NOT NULL,
      name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
      created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
    )
  `;

  // Use Prisma operations for data seeding
  await prisma.user.createMany({
    data: [
      { email: "admin@example.com", name: "Admin User" },
      { email: "user@example.com", name: "Test User" },
    ],
  });
}

export async function down(prisma: PrismaClient): Promise<void> {
  await prisma.$executeRaw`DROP TABLE IF EXISTS users`;
}
```

**JavaScript migrations work too:**

```javascript
exports.up = async function (prisma) {
  await prisma.$executeRaw`
    CREATE TABLE posts (
      id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
      title VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
      user_id INTEGER REFERENCES users(id)
    )
  `;
};

exports.down = async function (prisma) {
  await prisma.$executeRaw`DROP TABLE IF EXISTS posts`;
};
```

## Configuration

Prisma Migrations can be configured in several ways:

### 1. package.json

```json
{
  "prismaMigrations": {
    "migrationsDir": "./migrations",
    "schemaPath": "./prisma/schema.prisma",
    "tableName": "_prisma_migrations",
    "createTable": true,
    "migrationFormat": "ts",
    "extension": ".ts"
  }
}
```

### 2. Configuration file (prisma-migrations.config.js)

```javascript
module.exports = {
  migrationsDir: "./migrations",
  schemaPath: "./prisma/schema.prisma",
  tableName: "_prisma_migrations",
  createTable: true,
  migrationFormat: "ts", // 'sql', 'js', or 'ts'
  extension: ".ts", // or '.js', '.sql'
};
```

### Configuration Options

| Option            | Type                | Default                    | Description                                 |
| ----------------- | ------------------- | -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| `migrationsDir`   | `string`            | `'./migrations'`           | Directory where migration files are stored  |
| `schemaPath`      | `string`            | `'./prisma/schema.prisma'` | Path to Prisma schema file                  |
| `tableName`       | `string`            | `'_prisma_migrations'`     | Name of the migrations tracking table       |
| `createTable`     | `boolean`           | `true`                     | Whether to auto-create the migrations table |
| `migrationFormat` | `'sql'\|'js'\|'ts'` | `'ts'`                     | Format for new migration files              |
| `extension`       | `string`            | `'.ts'`                    | File extension for new migrations           |

### 3. Environment Variables

Set `DATABASE_URL` environment variable for database connection.

---

## API

### CLI Commands

#### `prisma-migrations create <name>`

Create a new migration file.

**Parameters:**

- `<name>`: Migration name (string)

**Example:**

```bash
prisma-migrations create add_users_table
prisma-migrations create "update user schema"
```

---

#### `prisma-migrations up [options]`

Run all pending migrations or specific migrations.

**Options:**

- `-t, --to <timestamp>`: Run up to a specific migration
- `-s, --steps <number>`: Run a specific number of migrations
- `-d, --dry-run`: Preview migrations without applying

**Examples:**

```bash
# Run all pending migrations
prisma-migrations up

# Run up to a specific migration
prisma-migrations up --to 20231201120000

# Run next 3 migrations
prisma-migrations up --steps 3

# Preview without applying
prisma-migrations up --dry-run
```

---

#### `prisma-migrations down [options]`

Rollback migrations.

**Options:**

- `-t, --to <timestamp>`: Rollback to a specific migration
- `-s, --steps <number>`: Rollback a specific number of migrations
- `-d, --dry-run`: Preview rollback without applying

**Examples:**

```bash
# Rollback last migration
prisma-migrations down

# Rollback to a specific migration
prisma-migrations down --to 20231201120000

# Rollback last 2 migrations
prisma-migrations down --steps 2

# Preview rollback
prisma-migrations down --dry-run
```

---

#### `prisma-migrations status`

Get the status of all migrations.

**Example:**

```bash
prisma-migrations status
```

**Output:**

```
add_users_table [applied] - 2023-12-01T12:00:00.000Z
add_posts_table [pending] - Pending
update_users_schema [applied] - 2023-12-01T13:00:00.000Z
```

---

#### `prisma-migrations test`

Test database connection.

**Example:**

```bash
prisma-migrations test
```

---

### Programmatic API

#### `MigrationManager(configPath?)`

Main class for managing migrations programmatically.

**Parameters:**

- `configPath?`: Optional path to configuration file (string)

**Example:**

```javascript
import { MigrationManager } from "prisma-migrations";

const manager = new MigrationManager("./custom-config.js");
```

---

#### `manager.createMigration(options)`

Create a new migration file.

**Parameters:**

- `options`: CreateMigrationOptions object
  - `name`: Migration name (string)
  - `directory?`: Optional custom directory (string)
  - `template?`: Optional custom template (MigrationTemplate)

**Returns:** `Promise<MigrationFile>`

**Example:**

```javascript
const migration = await manager.createMigration({
  name: "add_users_table",
  template: {
    up: "CREATE TABLE users (id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY);",
    down: "DROP TABLE users;",
  },
});
```

---

#### `manager.runMigrations(options?)`

Run pending migrations.

**Parameters:**

- `options?`: RunMigrationOptions object
  - `to?`: Run up to specific migration (string)
  - `steps?`: Number of migrations to run (number)
  - `dryRun?`: Preview without applying (boolean)
  - `force?`: Force run even if already applied (boolean)

**Returns:** `Promise<MigrationResult>`

**Example:**

```javascript
// Run all pending migrations
const result = await manager.runMigrations();

// Run with options
const result = await manager.runMigrations({
  steps: 3,
  dryRun: true,
});
```

---

#### `manager.rollbackMigrations(options?)`

Rollback applied migrations.

**Parameters:**

- `options?`: RollbackMigrationOptions object
  - `to?`: Rollback to specific migration (string)
  - `steps?`: Number of migrations to rollback (number)
  - `dryRun?`: Preview without applying (boolean)
  - `force?`: Force rollback even without down script (boolean)

**Returns:** `Promise<MigrationResult>`

**Example:**

```javascript
// Rollback last migration
const result = await manager.rollbackMigrations();

// Rollback with options
const result = await manager.rollbackMigrations({
  steps: 2,
  dryRun: true,
});
```

---

#### `manager.getMigrationStatus()`

Get status of all migrations.

**Returns:** `Promise<MigrationStatus[]>`

**Example:**

```javascript
const statuses = await manager.getMigrationStatus();
statuses.forEach((status) => {
  console.log(`${status.name} [${status.status}]`);
});
```

---

#### `manager.getMigrationState()`

Get detailed migration state information.

**Returns:** `Promise<MigrationState>`

**Example:**

```javascript
const state = await manager.getMigrationState();
console.log("Applied:", state.applied.length);
console.log("Pending:", state.pending.length);
```

---

#### `manager.testConnection()`

Test database connection.

**Returns:** `Promise<boolean>`

**Example:**

```javascript
const isConnected = await manager.testConnection();
if (isConnected) {
  console.log("Database connection successful");
}
```

---

### Configuration Classes

#### `ConfigManager(configPath?)`

Manages configuration loading and access.

**Methods:**

- `getConfig()`: Get current configuration
- `updateConfig(updates)`: Update configuration
- `getDatabaseUrl()`: Get database URL from various sources

---

#### `FileManager(migrationsDir)`

Manages migration file operations.

**Methods:**

- `createMigrationFile(name, template?)`: Create new migration file
- `readMigrationFiles()`: Read all migration files
- `getMigrationFile(timestamp)`: Get specific migration file
- `getMigrationByName(name)`: Find migration by name
- `parseMigrationContent(content)`: Parse UP/DOWN sections

---

#### `DatabaseAdapter(databaseUrl, tableName?)`

Handles database operations and migration tracking.

**Methods:**

- `connect()`: Connect to database
- `disconnect()`: Disconnect from database
- `getAppliedMigrations()`: Get all applied migrations
- `recordMigration(id, name)`: Record migration as applied
- `removeMigration(id)`: Remove migration record
- `executeMigration(sql)`: Execute migration SQL

---

### Type Definitions

#### `MigrationConfig`

```typescript
interface MigrationConfig {
  migrationsDir: string;
  schemaPath: string;
  databaseUrl?: string;
  tableName?: string;
  createTable?: boolean;
}
```

#### `Migration`

```typescript
interface Migration {
  id: string;
  name: string;
  filename: string;
  timestamp: Date;
  applied: boolean;
  appliedAt?: Date;
  rollback?: string;
}
```

#### `MigrationResult`

```typescript
interface MigrationResult {
  success: boolean;
  migrations: Migration[];
  error?: string;
}
```

#### `MigrationStatus`

```typescript
interface MigrationStatus {
  id: string;
  name: string;
  status: "pending" | "applied" | "error";
  appliedAt?: Date;
  error?: string;
}
```

---

### Migration File Formats

Prisma Migrations supports both SQL and JavaScript/TypeScript migration files:

#### SQL Format (Traditional)

```sql
-- UP
CREATE TABLE users (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  email VARCHAR(255) UNIQUE NOT NULL,
  created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);

-- DOWN
DROP TABLE users;
```

#### JavaScript/TypeScript Format (Knex-like)

**TypeScript (.ts files):**

```typescript
import { PrismaClient } from "@prisma/client";

export async function up(prisma: PrismaClient): Promise<void> {
  // Raw SQL approach
  await prisma.$executeRaw`
    CREATE TABLE users (
      id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
      email VARCHAR(255) UNIQUE NOT NULL,
      created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
      updated_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
    )
  `;

  // Or use Prisma operations for data seeding
  await prisma.user.createMany({
    data: [{ email: "admin@example.com" }, { email: "user@example.com" }],
  });
}

export async function down(prisma: PrismaClient): Promise<void> {
  await prisma.$executeRaw`DROP TABLE IF EXISTS users`;
}
```

**JavaScript (.js files):**

```javascript
exports.up = async function (prisma) {
  await prisma.$executeRaw`
    CREATE TABLE users (
      id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
      email VARCHAR(255) UNIQUE NOT NULL,
      created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
    )
  `;
};

exports.down = async function (prisma) {
  await prisma.$executeRaw`DROP TABLE IF EXISTS users`;
};
```

#### Configuration

Set the migration format in your configuration:

```javascript
// prisma-migrations.config.js
module.exports = {
  migrationFormat: "ts", // 'sql', 'js', or 'ts'
  migrationsDir: "./migrations",
  // ... other options
};
```

**Note:** TypeScript migrations require `tsx` to be installed:

```bash
npm install tsx
```

---

## Development

Use [Corepack](https://nodejs.org/api/corepack.html) to manage Yarn and ensure you have the latest Node and npm.

```bash
corepack enable
npm install
```

### Key Tasks

- `npm run build` - Build the TypeScript source
- `npm test` - Run unit tests
- `npm run test:docker` - Run end-to-end tests in Docker
- `npm run lint` - Run oxlint on source code
- `npm run format` - Format code with prettier

Use `npm run` commands for task execution.
